website(consul-api-gateway): add ReferencePolicy to overview docs (#12861)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/api-gateway/index.mdx

API Gateway routes traffic to services connected to the same service mesh. Those services can be running on the same Kubernetes cluster as the API Gateway, a different Kubernetes cluster, or another runtime, as long as they are connected to the same service mesh deployment and reachable over the network.

> Consul API Gateway implements, and is configured through, the Kubernetes [Gateway API Specification](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/). This specification defines a set of custom resource definitions (CRD) that can create logical gateways and routes based on the path or protocol of a client request.

Author: cc @Jeff-Apple for review of this phrasing change

> Consul API Gateway implements, and is configured through, the Kubernetes [Gateway API Specification](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/). This specification defines a set of custom resource definitions (CRD) that can create logical gateways and routes based on the path or protocol of a client request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consul API Gateway implements and is configured through the Kubernetes [Gateway API Specification](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/). This specification defines a set of custom resource definitions (CRD) that can create logical gateways, and routes traffic based on a client request's path or protocol.
```
In the last sentence I didn't have a comma after gateway (or should it be after the "and" after gateway?) and I didn't have "traffic" in there.  This is now correct in its intended meaning.

> Consul API Gateway implements, and is configured through, the Kubernetes [Gateway API Specification](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/). This specification defines a set of custom resource definitions (CRD) that can create logical gateways and routes based on the path or protocol of a client request.

Reviewer 2: One minor comment/question on the comma after "gateways": what routes the traffic, the specification or the CRD?

**If the specification routes, it should be:** "This specification defines a set of custom resource definitions (CRD) that can create logical gateways and routes traffic based on a client request's path or protocol.

**If the CRD routes, it should be:** "This specification defines a set of custom resource definitions (CRD) that can create logical gateways and route traffic based on a client request's path or protocol."

In short, the comma isn't strictly necessary for conjoining dependent clauses. It seems like the comma is being inserted to separate the "create gateways" and "routes traffic" verb/direct objects, but the difference in noun/verb case agreement ("specification...defines" vs. "definitions can create") already does that heavy lifting. As a result, the comma introduces uncertainty into the sentence.

> Consul API Gateway implements, and is configured through, the Kubernetes [Gateway API Specification](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/). This specification defines a set of custom resource definitions (CRD) that can create logical gateways and routes based on the path or protocol of a client request.

Author: CRD would be doing the routing, latter sentence reads as expected to me.

| [`HTTPRoute`](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/v1alpha2/references/spec/#gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha2.HTTPRoute) | <ul><li>Weight-based load balancing</li><li>Supported rules: path, header, query, and method-based matching</li><li>Supported filters: header addition, removal, and setting</li><li>Supported backend types: <ol><li>`core/v1/Service` (must map to a registered Consul service)</li><li>`api-gateway.consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1/MeshService`</li></ol></li></ul> |
| [`TCPRoute`](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/v1alpha2/references/spec/#gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha2.TCPRoute) | <ul><li>Supported backend types: <ol><li>`core/v1/Service` (must map to a registered Consul service)</li><li>`api-gateway.consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1/MeshService`</li></ol></li></ul> |

> | [`ReferencePolicy`](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/v1alpha2/references/spec/#gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha2.ReferencePolicy) | <ul><li>Required to allow any reference from an `HTTPRoute` or `TCPRoute` to a Kubernetes `core/v1/Service` in a different namespace.</li><li>A route with an unpermitted BackendRef caused by the lack of a ReferencePolicy sets a `ResolvedRefs` status to `False` with the reason `RefNotPermitted`. The gateway listener rejects routes with an unpermitted BackendRef.</li><li>WARNING: If a route BackendRef becomes unpermitted, the entire route is removed from the gateway listener. <ul><li>BackendRef can lose permissions when you delete a Reference Policy or add a new unpermitted BackendRef to an existing route.</li></ul></li></ul> |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`ReferencePolicy`](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/v1alpha2/references/spec/#gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha2.ReferencePolicy) | <ul><li>Required to allow any reference from an `HTTPRoute` or `TCPRoute` to a Kubernetes `core/v1/Service` in a different namespace.</li><li>A route with an unpermitted BackendRef caused by the lack of a ReferencePolicy sets a `ResolvedRefs` status to `False` with the reason `RefNotPermitted`. The gateway listener rejects routes with an unpermitted BackendRef.</li><li>WARNING: If a route BackendRef becomes unpermitted, the entire route is removed from the gateway listener. <ul><li>A BackendRef can become unpermitted when you delete a Reference Policy or add a new unpermitted BackendRef to an existing route.</li></ul></li></ul> |
```
